[2.13.x] DDF-4029 Updated documentation for advanced search operators (#4216)
codice/ddf: distribution/docs/src/main/resources/content/_using/using-catalog-search-ui.adoc

* *Delete*: Remove this search.
* *Duplicate*: Create a copy of this search as a starting point.
* *Search Archived*: Execute this search, but specifically for archived results.
* *Search Historical*: Execute this search, but specifically for historical results.

===== Editing a Search

An existing search can be updated by selecting the search in the *Search* tab of a workspace and by clicking the Edit (image:edit-icon.png[edit icon]) icon.

[no-bullet]
* *Text*: Perform a minimal textual search that is treated identically to a Basic search with only <<_text_search_details,Text>> specified.
* *Basic*: Define a <<_text_search_details,Text>>, <<_temporal_search_details,Temporal>>, <<_spatial_search_details,Spatial>>, or <<_type_search_details,Type>> Search.
[no-bullet]

> ** [[_text_search_details]]*Text Search Details*: Searches across all textual data of the targeted data source. Text search capabilities include:

Reviewer: new line and no colon after `*Text Search Details*` to be consistent with the `Temporal Search Details`, `Spatial Search Details`, and `Type Search Details` sections.

[no-bullet]

> *** Search for an exact word, such as `Text = apple` : Returns items containing the word "apple" but not "apples". Matching occurs on word boundaries.

Reviewer: ✏️ ``apple`:``

*** Search for the existence of items containing multiple words, such as `Text = apple orange` : Returns items containing both "apple" and "orange" words. Words can occur anywhere in an item's metadata.

> *** Search using wildcards, such as `Text = foo*` : Returns items containing words like "food", "fool", etc..

Reviewer: ✏️ ``foo*`:``

> *** Search using wildcards, such as `Text = foo*` : Returns items containing words like "food", "fool", etc..

Reviewer: ✏️`etc.` instead of `etc..` (3 occurrences of this in this file)

> *** Text searches are by default case insensitive, but case sensitive searches are an option.

Reviewer 2: ❓ should we add directions for making searches case-sensitive?

Author: I believe the only way in a Basic Search is to toggle it in the UI. The only other way is through an advanced search.
How about this:
```suggestion
Text searches are by default case insensitive, but case sensitive searches are possible by toggling the `Matchcase` option.
```

+

> Wildcards should only be used for single word searches, not for phrases.

Reviewer: The indentation of these lines seem off. Only the highlighted text should be part of the `Text search capabilities include:` list, right?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8041246/51355072-1b1da680-1a73-11e9-841b-2e5703912f3a.png)

Text searches are by default case insensitive, but case sensitive searches are an option.

> [[_temporal_search_details]]Temporal Search Details:: Search based on absolute time of the created, modified, or effective date.

Reviewer: The indentation of the temporal Search details section is not consistent with `Text Search Details`, `Spatial Search Details`, and `Type Search Details`.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8041246/51354747-df361180-1a71-11e9-9a5f-0c3a66ac06e9.png)

[no-bullet]
*** *Any*: Search without any time restrictions (default).
*** *After*: Search records after a specified time.
*** *Before*: Search records before a specified time.
*** *Between*: Set a beginning and end time to search between.
*** *Relative*: Search records relative to the current time.
+
** [[_spatial_search_details]]*Spatial Search Details*
[no-bullet]
*** Search by latitude/longitude, USNG/MGRS, or UTM using a line, polygon, point-radius, or bounding box. Spatial criteria can also be defined by entering a *Keyword* for a region, country, or city in the *Location* section of the query builder.
+
** [[_type_search_details]]*Type Search Details*
[no-bullet]
*** Search for specific content types.
+
* *Advanced*: Advanced query builder can be used to create more specific searches than can be done through the other methods.
[no-bullet]
** [[_advanced_query_builder_details]]*Advanced Query Builder Details*
[no-bullet]
*** *Operator*: If 'AND' is used, all the filters in the branch have to be true for this branch to be true. If 'OR' is used, only one of the filters in this branch has to be true for this branch to be true.
*** *Property*: Property to compare against.

> *** *Comparison*: How to compare the value for this property against the provided value. Depending on the type of property selected, various comparison values will be available. See <<_advanced_query_builder_comparators,Types of Comparators>>

Reviewer: `Types of Comparators>>.`

*** *Search Terms*: The value for the property to use during comparison.
*** *Sorting*: Sort results by relevance, distance, created time, modified time or effective time.
*** *Sources*: Perform an enterprise search (the local ${ddf-catalog} and all federated sources) or search specific sources.
+
** [[_advanced_query_builder_comparators]]*Advanced Query Builder Comparators*
[no-bullet]
*** *Textual*:
[no-bullet]

> **** *CONTAINS*: Equivalent to <<_text_search_details,Basic Text Search>> with Matchcase set to No.

Reviewer 3: I have a suggestion that is outside the scope of the ticket but might be useful. Consider using the in-line code formatting for keywords that would actually appear in the search string. For example,

`CONTAINS`, `NEAR`, and `>=`

instead of 

**CONTAINS**, **NEAR**, and **>=**

**** *MATCHCASE*: Equivalent to <<_text_search_details,Basic Text Search>> with Matchcase set to Yes.
**** *=*: Matches if an attribute is precisely equal to that search term.
**** *NEAR*: Performs a fuzzy proximity-based textual search. A NEAR query of `"car street" within 3` will match a sample text of `the blue car drove down the street with the red building` because performing three word deletions in that phrase (`drove`, `down`, `the`) causes `car` and `street` to become adjacent.
+
More generally, a NEAR query of `"A B" within N` matches a text document if you can perform at most N insertions/deletions to your document and end up with `A` followed by `B`.
+

> It is worth noting that `"street car" within 3` will not match the above sample text because it is not possible to match the phrase `"street car"` after only three insertions/deletions. `"street car" within 5` will match, though, as you can perform three word deletions to get `"car street"`, one deletion of one of the two words, and one insertion on the other side.

Reviewer 3: It's hard to know which text is the intended sample text. Also, there are two uses of the word _match_ in this sentence, the first is in the sense of _recognizing_ and the second is used in the sense of _generating_. It might be confusing to the reader. Consider changing to:

>It is worth noting that the query `"street car" within 3` will not match `the blue car drove down the street with the red building` because `the blue car drove down the street with the red building` cannot be made to contain `"car street"` by inserting/deleting only 3 words. However, `"street car" within 5` will match if your delete 3 words to get `"car street"`, then delete either `car` or `street` and insert the word on the other side.

Author: I'm not against making the changes you suggested as long as we are ok with this section being different from master(Or making small PR on master to keep them the same).

Reviewer: I don't think these suggestions are blocking merging this PR. I think we should keep the changes consistent with master in this PR. Any other other changes should be in a new 2.13.x PR which can then be ported to master.

+

> If multiple terms are used in the phrase, then the `within` amount specifies the total number of edits that can be made to attempt to make the full phrase match. `"car down street" within 2` will match the above text because it takes two word deletions (`drove`, `the`) to turn the phrase `car drove down the street` into `car down street`.

Reviewer 3: Again, consider replacing _above text_ with the actual string, `the blue car drove down the street with the red building`
